README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# plotor

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of plotor is to …

## Installation

You can install the development version of plotor from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("craig-parylo/plotor")
```

You can also install the latest released version from Cran with:

``` r
install.packages("plotor")
```

## Example

This is a basic example which shows you how to solve a common problem:

``` r
library(plotor)
library(dplyr)
library(datasets)
library(tidyr)
library(stats)
library(broom)
library(forcats)
library(ggplot2)
```

In this example we will explore the likelihood of surviving the Titanic
disaster based on passenger economic status (class), sex, and age group.

Start with getting the data from the datasets package.

``` r
df <- datasets::Titanic |> 
  as_tibble() |> 
  # convert counts to observations
  filter(n > 0) |>
  uncount(weights = n) |>
  # convert categorical variables to factors.
  # we specify an order for levels in Class and Survival, otherwise ordering
  # in descending order of frequency
  mutate(
    Class = Class |>
      fct(levels = c('1st', '2nd', '3rd', 'Crew')),
    Sex = Sex |>
      fct_infreq(),
    Age = Age |>
      fct_infreq(),
    Survived = Survived |>
      fct(levels = c('No', 'Yes'))
  )
```

We now have a tibble of data containing four columns:

- `Survived` - our outcome variable describing whether the passenger
  survived `Yes` or died `No`,

- `Class` - the passenger class, either `1st`, `2nd`, `3rd` or `Crew`,

- `Sex` - the gender of the passenger, either `Male` or `Female`,

- `Age` - whether the passenger was an `Adult` or `Child`.

We next conduct a logistic regression of survival (as a binary factor:
‘yes’ and ‘no’) against the characteristics of passenger class, sex and
age group. For this we use the Generalised Linear Model function (`glm`)
from the `stats` package, specifying:

- the family as ‘binomial’, and

- the formula as survival being a function of `Class`, `Sex` and `Age`.

``` r
# conduct a logistic regression of survival against the other variables
lr <- glm(
  data = df, 
  family = 'binomial', 
  formula = Survived ~ Class + Sex + Age
  )
```

Finally, we can plot the Odds Ratio of survival using the `plot_or`
function.

``` r
# using plot_or 
plot_or(glm_model_results = lr)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-unnamed-chunk-4-1.svg" width="100%" />

Commit message:

extends README with more details around packages used, the package logo and interpretation of the OR plot

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# plotor <a href="https://craig-parylo.github.io/plotor/"><img src="man/figures/logo.png" alt="plotor website" align="right" height="138"/></a>

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of plotor is to generate Odds Ratio plots from logistic
regression models.

## Installation

You can install the development version of plotor from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("craig-parylo/plotor")
```

You can also install the latest released version from Cran with:

``` r
install.packages("plotor")
```

## Example

In this example we will explore the likelihood of surviving the Titanic
disaster based on passenger economic status (class), sex, and age group.

In addition to `plotor` the packages we will use include `dplyr`,
`tidyr` and `forcats` for general data wrangling, the `stats` package to
conduct the logistic regression followed by `broom` to tidy the output
and convert the results to Odds Ratios and confidence intervals, then
`ggplot2` to visualise the plot.

``` r
library(plotor)      # generates Odds Ratio plots
library(datasets)    # source of example data
library(dplyr)       # data wrangling
library(tidyr)       # data wrangling - uncounting aggregated data
library(forcats)     # data wrangling - handling factor variables
library(stats)       # perform logistic regression using glm function
library(broom)       # tidying glm model and producing OR and CI
library(ggplot2)     # data visualisation
```

Start with getting the data from the datasets package.

``` r
df <- datasets::Titanic |> 
  as_tibble() |> 
  # convert counts to observations
  filter(n > 0) |>
  uncount(weights = n) |>
  # convert categorical variables to factors.
  # we specify an order for levels in Class and Survival, otherwise ordering
  # in descending order of frequency
  mutate(
    Class = Class |>
      fct(levels = c('1st', '2nd', '3rd', 'Crew')),
    Sex = Sex |>
      fct_infreq(),
    Age = Age |>
      fct_infreq(),
    Survived = Survived |>
      fct(levels = c('No', 'Yes'))
  )
```

We now have a tibble of data containing four columns:

- `Survived` - our outcome variable describing whether the passenger
  survived `Yes` or died `No`,

- `Class` - the passenger class, either `1st`, `2nd`, `3rd` or `Crew`,

- `Sex` - the gender of the passenger, either `Male` or `Female`,

- `Age` - whether the passenger was an `Adult` or `Child`.

We next conduct a logistic regression of survival (as a binary factor:
‘yes’ and ‘no’) against the characteristics of passenger class, sex and
age group. For this we use the Generalised Linear Model function (`glm`)
from the `stats` package, specifying:

- the family as ‘binomial’, and

- the formula as survival being a function of `Class`, `Sex` and `Age`.

``` r
# conduct a logistic regression of survival against the other variables
lr <- glm(
  data = df, 
  family = 'binomial', 
  formula = Survived ~ Class + Sex + Age
  )
```

Finally, we can plot the Odds Ratio of survival using the `plot_or`
function.

``` r
# using plot_or 
plot_or(glm_model_results = lr)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-unnamed-chunk-4-1.svg" width="100%" />

This plot makes it clear that:

- Children were 2.89 times more likely to survive than Adults,

- Passengers in `2nd`, `3rd` class as well as `Crew` were all less
  likely to survive than those in `1st` class,

- Women were 11.25 times more likely to survive than men.
